V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASWE-0030.md

Reviewer: Jacobo: DONE

---

> title: Sensitive Data Leaked via Screenshots or Screen Recordings

Author: @jacobocasado would you also add the "Unnecessary" here? Or maybe consider this (after checking the suggestions below; the weakness is more precisely a failure to protect sensitive content from capture)

```suggestion
title: Insufficient Protection of Sensitive Data from Screenshots or Screen Recordings
```

Reviewer: I like this approach more :)

id: MASWE-0030
alias: data-leak-screenshots

> requirement: "The app removes sensitive data from views when moved to the background or when being recorded."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requirement: "The app removes or masks sensitive data from its views when moved to the background, when being recorded or when a screenshot is taken."
```

platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0030
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0010, MAS-ATTACK-0071, MAS-ATTACK-0072]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-STORAGE-9]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-PLATFORM-3, MASVS-STORAGE-2]
  cwe: [200, 359]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0055]
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/about/versions/14/features/screenshot-detection
status: new
---

## Overview

> This weakness occurs when sensitive data displayed by the app can be captured in screenshots or screen recordings, or persists in system-generated snapshots, without the app preventing or redacting it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This weakness occurs when an app unnecessarily exposes sensitive data in screenshots or screen recordings, without the app preventing or redacting it.
```

Author: I think the weakness is usually the app's failure to prevent, conceal, or redact sensitive content during capture, rather than an active act of exposure.

```suggestion
This weakness occurs when sensitive data displayed by an app can be captured in screenshots or screen recordings, and the app does not prevent the capture or conceal or redact the data when such protection is warranted.
```

Reviewer: I like this approach, mixes two things: 
- The app can try to prevent the capture
- If not possible, the app must redact the data that is considered sensitive for the capture.

> Mobile platforms allow users, other apps, and external tools to capture screenshots or record the screen. In addition, when an app enters the background, the system may capture a snapshot of the app's current view to display in the app switcher, and store it on the file system. Any sensitive content visible on screen at that moment can end up in these images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile platforms allow users, privileged apps, and external tools to capture screenshots or record the screen. In addition, when an app enters the background, the system may capture a snapshot of the app's current view to display in the app switcher. Any sensitive content visible on screen at that moment can end up in these images.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Mobile platforms allow users, privileged apps, and external tools to capture screenshots or record the screen. In addition, when an app enters the background, the system may capture a snapshot of the app's current view for display in the app switcher. Sensitive content that remains visible without appropriate protection can be retained in these images or recordings.
```

## Modes of Introduction

> - **Screenshots and Screen Recordings Not Prevented**: Not implementing measures (such as setting secure window flags) to prevent the operating system or other apps from capturing screenshots or screen recordings of sensitive views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Missing Platform Screenshot Protection**: Displaying sensitive fields without applying the related platform protections that can avoid the field information from appearing in screenshots or screen recordings (e.g., in Android, applying the [`FLAG_SECURE`]("https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/WindowManager.LayoutParams#FLAG_SECURE") flag).
```

Author: This isn't wrong but whenever possible we try to avoid platform-specific items here. Is there a good reason to add this one?

Reviewer: I refactored it so that the item is generic, but providing an example for Android. Is that fine?

> - **Unredacted Sensitive On-Screen Content**: Displaying sensitive information directly on the screen without masking or redacting it, including in the view snapshot the system takes when the app moves to the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Missing Capture-State Redaction**: Continuing to display sensitive information while the app or scene is being recorded, mirrored, or shared, despite the platform providing an API to detect the active capture state.
- **Excessive On-Screen Disclosure**: Displaying complete sensitive values when a masked, partial, temporary, or user-initiated representation would be sufficient for the current task.
```

## Impact

> - **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Attackers can obtain sensitive data previously displayed on the screen, such as account details, personal information, or one-time codes, resulting in unauthorized disclosure and enabling further attacks such as identity theft or account takeover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Sensitive information may be retained in an image or video after the app session ends and may later be viewed, shared, synchronized, backed up, or accessed by another person or service.
```

## Mitigations

> - **Prevent Screenshots and Screen Recording**: Mark views containing sensitive data as secure so the system blocks screenshots and screen recordings of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redact Sensitive On-Screen Content**: Display only the portion of a sensitive value required for the current task. Mask values by default and unmask the values only for the needed actions, masking them again once they have been used for the task.
- **Anti-Screenshot Platform Protections**: Apply platform protections that prevent elements containing sensitive content from appearing in screenshots or on non-secure displays (for example, in Android, applying the [`FLAG_SECURE`]("https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/WindowManager.LayoutParams#FLAG_SECURE") flag).
```

Author: Same here, this is great but we should consider platform-agnostic mitigations where possible. And ensure these specifics are in the corresponding MASTG-BEST files. If those do not exist yet, then this should be captured in a MASTG issue.

Reviewer: @cpholguera I modified it to be more generic, and only provided a little example for Android to make it more understandable. If you think the Android example is not needed, we can remove it.

> - **Redact Sensitive On-Screen Content**: Mask or redact sensitive content in the UI and replace or obscure the view before the system captures the background snapshot, so no confidential data is visible in captured images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
